docs/src/fs_event.rst, before:


.. _fs_event:

:c:type:`uv_fs_event_t` --- FS Event handle
===========================================

FS Event handles allow the user to monitor a given path for changes, for example,
if the file was renamed or there was a generic change in it. This handle uses
the best backend for the job on each platform.


Data types
----------

.. c:type:: uv_fs_event_t

    FS Event handle type.

.. c:type:: void (*uv_fs_event_cb)(uv_fs_event_t* handle, const char* filename, int events, int status)

    Callback passed to :c:func:`uv_fs_event_start` which will be called repeatedly
    after the handle is started. If the handle was started with a directory the
    `filename` parameter will be a relative path to a file contained in the directory.
    The `events` parameter is an ORed mask of :c:type:`uv_fs_event` elements.

.. c:type:: uv_fs_event

    Event types that :c:type:`uv_fs_event_t` handles monitor.

    ::

        enum uv_fs_event {
            UV_RENAME = 1,
            UV_CHANGE = 2
        };

.. c:type:: uv_fs_event_flags

    Flags that can be passed to :c:func:`uv_fs_event_start` to control its
    behavior.

    ::

        enum uv_fs_event_flags {
            /*
            * By default, if the fs event watcher is given a directory name, we will
            * watch for all events in that directory. This flags overrides this behavior
            * and makes fs_event report only changes to the directory entry itself. This
            * flag does not affect individual files watched.
            * This flag is currently not implemented yet on any backend.
            */
            UV_FS_EVENT_WATCH_ENTRY = 1,
            /*
            * By default uv_fs_event will try to use a kernel interface such as inotify
            * or kqueue to detect events. This may not work on remote filesystems such
            * as NFS mounts. This flag makes fs_event fall back to calling stat() on a
            * regular interval.
            * This flag is currently not implemented yet on any backend.
            */
            UV_FS_EVENT_STAT = 2,
            /*
            * By default, event watcher, when watching directory, is not registering
            * (is ignoring) changes in it's subdirectories.
            * This flag will override this behaviour on platforms that support it.
            */
            UV_FS_EVENT_RECURSIVE = 4
        };


Public members
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

N/A

.. seealso:: The :c:type:`uv_handle_t` members also apply.


API
---

.. c:function:: int uv_fs_event_init(uv_loop_t* loop, uv_fs_event_t* handle)

    Initialize the handle.

.. c:function:: int uv_fs_event_start(uv_fs_event_t* handle, uv_fs_event_cb cb, const char* path, unsigned int flags)

    Start the handle with the given callback, which will watch the specified
    `path` for changes. `flags` can be an ORed mask of :c:type:`uv_fs_event_flags`.

    .. note:: Currently the only supported flag is ``UV_FS_EVENT_RECURSIVE`` and
              only on OSX.

.. c:function:: int uv_fs_event_stop(uv_fs_event_t* handle)

    Stop the handle, the callback will no longer be called.

.. c:function:: int uv_fs_event_getpath(uv_fs_event_t* handle, char* buf, size_t* len)

    Get the path being monitored by the handle. The buffer must be preallocated
    by the user. Returns 0 on success or an error code < 0 in case of failure.
    On success, `buf` will contain the path and `len` its length. If the buffer
    is not big enough UV_ENOBUFS will be returned and len will be set to the
    required size.

.. seealso:: The :c:type:`uv_handle_t` API functions also apply.

Commit message:

fs, pipe: no trailing terminator in exact sized buffers
uv_fs_poll_getpath, uv_pipe_getsockname, uv_fs_event_getpath used
to return the trailing null terminator, even though the functions
returned the size.

fix #155

docs/src/fs_event.rst, after:


.. _fs_event:

:c:type:`uv_fs_event_t` --- FS Event handle
===========================================

FS Event handles allow the user to monitor a given path for changes, for example,
if the file was renamed or there was a generic change in it. This handle uses
the best backend for the job on each platform.


Data types
----------

.. c:type:: uv_fs_event_t

    FS Event handle type.

.. c:type:: void (*uv_fs_event_cb)(uv_fs_event_t* handle, const char* filename, int events, int status)

    Callback passed to :c:func:`uv_fs_event_start` which will be called repeatedly
    after the handle is started. If the handle was started with a directory the
    `filename` parameter will be a relative path to a file contained in the directory.
    The `events` parameter is an ORed mask of :c:type:`uv_fs_event` elements.

.. c:type:: uv_fs_event

    Event types that :c:type:`uv_fs_event_t` handles monitor.

    ::

        enum uv_fs_event {
            UV_RENAME = 1,
            UV_CHANGE = 2
        };

.. c:type:: uv_fs_event_flags

    Flags that can be passed to :c:func:`uv_fs_event_start` to control its
    behavior.

    ::

        enum uv_fs_event_flags {
            /*
            * By default, if the fs event watcher is given a directory name, we will
            * watch for all events in that directory. This flags overrides this behavior
            * and makes fs_event report only changes to the directory entry itself. This
            * flag does not affect individual files watched.
            * This flag is currently not implemented yet on any backend.
            */
            UV_FS_EVENT_WATCH_ENTRY = 1,
            /*
            * By default uv_fs_event will try to use a kernel interface such as inotify
            * or kqueue to detect events. This may not work on remote filesystems such
            * as NFS mounts. This flag makes fs_event fall back to calling stat() on a
            * regular interval.
            * This flag is currently not implemented yet on any backend.
            */
            UV_FS_EVENT_STAT = 2,
            /*
            * By default, event watcher, when watching directory, is not registering
            * (is ignoring) changes in it's subdirectories.
            * This flag will override this behaviour on platforms that support it.
            */
            UV_FS_EVENT_RECURSIVE = 4
        };


Public members
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

N/A

.. seealso:: The :c:type:`uv_handle_t` members also apply.


API
---

.. c:function:: int uv_fs_event_init(uv_loop_t* loop, uv_fs_event_t* handle)

    Initialize the handle.

.. c:function:: int uv_fs_event_start(uv_fs_event_t* handle, uv_fs_event_cb cb, const char* path, unsigned int flags)

    Start the handle with the given callback, which will watch the specified
    `path` for changes. `flags` can be an ORed mask of :c:type:`uv_fs_event_flags`.

    .. note:: Currently the only supported flag is ``UV_FS_EVENT_RECURSIVE`` and
              only on OSX.

.. c:function:: int uv_fs_event_stop(uv_fs_event_t* handle)

    Stop the handle, the callback will no longer be called.

.. c:function:: int uv_fs_event_getpath(uv_fs_event_t* handle, char* buf, size_t* len)

    Get the path being monitored by the handle. The buffer must be preallocated
    by the user. Returns 0 on success or an error code < 0 in case of failure.
    On success, `buf` will contain the path and `len` its length. If the buffer
    is not big enough UV_ENOBUFS will be returned and len will be set to the
    required size.

    .. versionchanged:: 1.3.0 the returned length no longer includes the terminating null byte

.. seealso:: The :c:type:`uv_handle_t` API functions also apply.
