docs/src/tty.rst, before:


.. _tty:

:c:type:`uv_tty_t` --- TTY handle
=================================

TTY handles represent a stream for the console.

:c:type:`uv_tty_t` is a 'subclass' of :c:type:`uv_stream_t`.


Data types
----------

.. c:type:: uv_tty_t

    TTY handle type.

.. c:type:: uv_tty_mode_t

    TTY mode type:

    ::

        typedef enum {
            /* Initial/normal terminal mode */
            UV_TTY_MODE_NORMAL,
            /* Raw input mode (On Windows, ENABLE_WINDOW_INPUT is also enabled) */
            UV_TTY_MODE_RAW,
            /* Binary-safe I/O mode for IPC (Unix-only) */
            UV_TTY_MODE_IO
        } uv_tty_mode_t;



Public members
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

N/A

.. seealso:: The :c:type:`uv_stream_t` members also apply.


API
---

.. c:function:: int uv_tty_init(uv_loop_t*, uv_tty_t*, uv_file fd, int readable)

    Initialize a new TTY stream with the given file descriptor. Usually the
    file descriptor will be:

    * 0 = stdin
    * 1 = stdout
    * 2 = stderr

    `readable`, specifies if you plan on calling :c:func:`uv_read_start` with
    this stream. stdin is readable, stdout is not.

    .. note::
        TTY streams which are not readable have blocking writes.

.. c:function:: int uv_tty_set_mode(uv_tty_t*, uv_tty_mode_t mode)

    Set the TTY using the specified terminal mode.

.. c:function:: int uv_tty_reset_mode(void)

    To be called when the program exits. Resets TTY settings to default
    values for the next process to take over.

    This function is async signal-safe on Unix platforms but can fail with error
    code ``UV_EBUSY`` if you call it when execution is inside
    :c:func:`uv_tty_set_mode`.

.. c:function:: int uv_tty_get_winsize(uv_tty_t*, int* width, int* height)

    Gets the current Window size. On success it returns 0.

.. seealso:: The :c:type:`uv_stream_t` API functions also apply.

Commit message:

doc: indicate the version where uv_tty_set_mode was changed
PR-URL: https://github.com/libuv/libuv/pull/89
Reviewed-By: Ben Noordhuis <info@bnoordhuis.nl>

docs/src/tty.rst, after:


.. _tty:

:c:type:`uv_tty_t` --- TTY handle
=================================

TTY handles represent a stream for the console.

:c:type:`uv_tty_t` is a 'subclass' of :c:type:`uv_stream_t`.


Data types
----------

.. c:type:: uv_tty_t

    TTY handle type.

.. c:type:: uv_tty_mode_t

    .. versionadded:: 1.1.1

    TTY mode type:

    ::

        typedef enum {
            /* Initial/normal terminal mode */
            UV_TTY_MODE_NORMAL,
            /* Raw input mode (On Windows, ENABLE_WINDOW_INPUT is also enabled) */
            UV_TTY_MODE_RAW,
            /* Binary-safe I/O mode for IPC (Unix-only) */
            UV_TTY_MODE_IO
        } uv_tty_mode_t;



Public members
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

N/A

.. seealso:: The :c:type:`uv_stream_t` members also apply.


API
---

.. c:function:: int uv_tty_init(uv_loop_t*, uv_tty_t*, uv_file fd, int readable)

    Initialize a new TTY stream with the given file descriptor. Usually the
    file descriptor will be:

    * 0 = stdin
    * 1 = stdout
    * 2 = stderr

    `readable`, specifies if you plan on calling :c:func:`uv_read_start` with
    this stream. stdin is readable, stdout is not.

    .. note::
        TTY streams which are not readable have blocking writes.

.. c:function:: int uv_tty_set_mode(uv_tty_t*, uv_tty_mode_t mode)

    .. versionchanged:: 1.1.1: the mode is specified as a :c:type:`uv_tty_mode_t`
                        value.

    Set the TTY using the specified terminal mode.

.. c:function:: int uv_tty_reset_mode(void)

    To be called when the program exits. Resets TTY settings to default
    values for the next process to take over.

    This function is async signal-safe on Unix platforms but can fail with error
    code ``UV_EBUSY`` if you call it when execution is inside
    :c:func:`uv_tty_set_mode`.

.. c:function:: int uv_tty_get_winsize(uv_tty_t*, int* width, int* height)

    Gets the current Window size. On success it returns 0.

.. seealso:: The :c:type:`uv_stream_t` API functions also apply.
